= carrierwave-meta

= Installation

Add the following line to your Gemfile:
  gem 'carrierwave-meta'

= Usage example

  class TestUploader < CarrierWave::Uploader::Base
    include CarrierWave::RMagick
    include CarrierWave::Meta
  
    storage :file

    process :store_meta
    version :version do
      process :resize_to_fill => [200, 200]
      process :store_meta
    end
  end
  
  file = File.open('test.jpg') # JPEG 500x300, 20000 bytes
  uploader = TestUploader.new
  uploader.store!(file)
  
  uploader.width        # 500
  uploader.height       # 300
  uploader.image_size   # [500, 300]
  uploader.file_zie     # 20000
  uploader.content_type # "image/jpeg"
  
  uploader.version.width        # 200
  uploader.version.height       # 200  
  uploader.version.image_size   # [200, 200]  
  uploader.version.file_zie     # less than 20000
  uploader.version.content_type # "image/jpeg"

= Saving values to database

Simply create database columns to hold metadata in your model's table. Currently gem supports width, height, 
image_size ([width, height]), content_type and file_size fields. Versions are supported too.

  class TestModel
    attr_accessor :image_width  
    attr_accessor :image_height
    attr_accessor :image_image_size  
    attr_accessor :image_content_type
    attr_accessor :image_file_size

    attr_accessor :image_version_width  
    attr_accessor :image_version_height
    attr_accessor :image_version_image_size
    attr_accessor :image_version_content_type
    attr_accessor :image_version_file_size  
  end

  file = File.open('test.jpg')
  model = TestModel.new
  uploader = TestUploader.new(model, :image)
  uploader.store!(file)
  
  uploader.width      # 500
  model.image_width   # 500
  model.image_height  # 300
  ...

When columns are available in the model instance, metadata is stored in that columns.

= Behind the scenes

After the file is retrieved from store or cache metadata is recalculated unless uploader has attached
model instance. If uploader has attached model instance values are read from that instance.

  uploader = TestUploader.new
  uploader.retrieve_from_store!('test.jpg')

  uploader.version.width # 200

= model_delegate_attribute

Used to synchronize data between uploader and mounted model instance. Model's instance is used like value cache.

  class DelegateTestModel
    attr_accessor :processed
    attr_accessor :a_processed
    attr_accessor :a_b_processed
  end
  
  class DelegateTestUploader < CarrierWave::Uploader::Base
    model_delegate_attribute :uploaded
  
    set_processed
  
    version :a do
      set_processed
      version :b do
        set_processed
      end
    end
  
    def set_processed
      self.processed = true
    end
  end

  model = DelegateTestModel.new
  uploader = DelegateTestUploader.new(model, :image)
  file = File.open('test.jpg')
  
  uploader.store!(file)
  
  model.processed     # true
  model.a_processed   # true  
  model.a_b_processed # true
  
  model.a_processed = false
  
  uploader.processed     # true
  uploader.a_processed   # false
  uploader.a_b_processed # true

When model is mounted to uploader:

1. If attribute is assigned inside uploader then corresponding property in model is also assigned.
2. If attribute is retrieved from uploader instance first checks that value is defined in model and returns it. Otherwise returns uploader's instance variable.
3. If file is deleted, value becomes nil.

Otherwise acts as regular uploader's instance variables.

This is very useful for:

= Integrating CarrierWave with JCrop

Let implement the behavior like at this demo: http://deepliquid.com/projects/Jcrop/demos.php?demo=thumbnail

The uploader:

  class CropUploader < SobakaUploader
    include CarrierWave::Meta

    # Crop source is a source image converted from original which could be bigger than source area (left image in the example).
    version :crop_source do
      process :resize_to_fit => [300, 300]
      process :store_meta
    
      # This is the cropped version of parent image. Let crop to 50x50 square.
      version :crop do
        process :crop_to => [50, 50]
      end
    end

    # Defines crop area dimensions.
    # This should be assigned before #store! and #cache! called and should be saved in the model's instance. 
    # Otherwise cropped image would be lost after #recreate_versions! is called.
    # If crop area dimensions are'nt assigned, uploader calculates crop area dimensions inside the
    # parent image and creates the default image.
    model_delegate_attribute :x
    model_delegate_attribute :y
    model_delegate_attribute :w
    model_delegate_attribute :h

    # Crop processor
    def crop_to(width, height)
      # Checks that crop area is defined and crop should be done.
      if ((crop_args[0] == crop_args[2]) || (crop_args[1] == crop_args[3]))
        # If not creates default image and saves it's dimensions.
        resize_to_fill_and_save_dimensions(width, height)
      else
        args = crop_args + [width, height]
        crop_and_resize(*args)
      end
    end

    def crop_and_resize(x, y, width, height, new_width, new_height)
      manipulate! do |img|
        cropped_img = img.crop(x, y, width, height)
        new_img = cropped_img.resize_to_fill(new_width, new_height)
        destroy_image(cropped_img)
        destroy_image(img)      
        new_img
      end
    end

    # Creates the default crop image.
    # Here the original crop area dimensions are restored and assigned to the model's instance.  
    def resize_to_fill_and_save_dimensions(new_width, new_height)
      manipulate! do |img|
        width, height = img.columns, img.rows
        new_img = img.resize_to_fill(new_width, new_height)
        destroy_image(img)

        w_ratio = width.to_f / new_width.to_f
        h_ratio = height.to_f / new_height.to_f

        ratio = [w_ratio, h_ratio].min
      
        self.w = ratio * new_width
        self.h = ratio * new_height
        self.x = (width - self.w) / 2
        self.y = (height - self.h) / 2
            
        new_img
      end
    end
    
    private
    def crop_args
      %w(x y w h).map { |accessor| send(accessor).to_i }
    end    
  end

  # Post should have :crop_source_version_x, :crop_source_version_y, :crop_source_version_h, :crop_source_version_w columns
  class Post < ActiveRecord::Base
    mount_uploader CropUploader, :image
  end

  # Let's upload an image
  post = Post.new
  post.image = params[:image] # Let the uploaded file is 800x600 JPEG
  post.save!

  post.image.crop_source.width  # 300
  post.image.crop_source.height # 200  
  post.image.crop_source.crop.width  # 50
  post.image.crop_source.crop.height # 50
  
  # Default crop area coordinates within the limits of big image dimensions: square at the center of an image
  post.image.crop_source.crop.x # 50
  post.image.crop_source.crop.y # 50
  post.image.crop_source.crop.w # 200 
  post.image.crop_source.crop.h # 200

  # Let user change the crop area with JCrop script. Pass new crop area parameters to the model.
  post.crop_source_crop_x = 100
  post.crop_source_crop_y = 100
  post.crop_source_crop_w = 100
  post.crop_source_crop_h = 100

  post.save! # Crop image is reprocessed
  
  post.image.crop_source.crop.width  # 50
  post.image.crop_source.crop.height # 50

= A note about testing

@fschwahn added support for mini-magick. To run tests with mini-magick do:

  bundle exec rake spec PROCESSOR=mini_magick

= TODO

1. I do not know how it would work with S3 and other remote storages. Should be tested.
2. Write integration guide for JCrop.
3. A notice about content-type.
4. Improve my english skills.
